


10-28-2023 GIT Merge Conflicts

CLI Commands: Linux commands that we use to run some tasks on our machine using Terminal (mac) command prompt (windows)

cd, ls, pwd, clear, mkdir, touch, echo 

GIT: Version Control System that is used to track changes for a folder/project 
It enables programmers/team members to collaborate with their changes 

GIT: Global Information Tracker 

GitHub: Hosting website that you can see your changes, add collaborators, create Pull Request and more. 


Pull Request or Merge Request:
-When you did changes in a local branch, and when you push these changes to remote, it goes to your remote branch 
but not main/master.
-Then, you request your changes to be merged to main/master, this is called Pull Request or Merge Request. 
REMOTE to REMOTE and from one branch to another branch

pull: this is used to pull the changes to your local branch from remote using git pull. 
REMOTE to LOCAL and from same remote branch to local branch


GIT BRANCHING
git branch          -> used to see the list of existing branches and the one that you are currently on
git branch {name}   -> used to create a new branch 
git checkout {name} -> used to switch branch to given branch 
git checkout -b {name}  -> used to create and switch to newly created branch at the same time
git branch -d {name}    -> used to delete the branch
git branch -m oldName newName   -> used to rename a branch 



HOW TO MERGE ONE LOCAL BRANCH INTO ANTOHER LOCAL BRANCH? 
1. First make sure you are on correct branch to merge another branch into 
2. Run "git merge {branchName}" command to merge changes from specified branch to your branch 

Assume that you are branch called as US123-Login-Task and you want to merge changes to this from master.
git merge master        -> merges all the changes from master to US123-Login-Task


MERGE CONFLICTS 
-This happens only if 2 or more collaborators are modifying the same file and one of them trying to have pull request to 
master without PULLING THE LAST CHANGES.

1. Dylan already did changes with dylan.js and merged them to master.
2. Akin did not pull the changes and he created his own branch off of the master in local and start making changes on the
same file.
3. Akin also push the changes with local branch and requesting a PULL REQUEST and conflict happens!!!


HOW TO RESOLVE:
1. If the conflict is a small one and could be resolved quickly, then just resolve it in the hosting website and 
complete the PULL REQUEST.

2. Sometimes conflict is more complex and you need to resolve all in your local. 
    2a. First get back to your local
    2b. Switch branch to master 
    2c. Pull the changes with "git pull" to master
    2d. Switch back to your local branch that caused the conflicts 
    2e. Merge master into your local branch using "git merge master" 
    2f. Resolve all the conflicts on your editor
    2g. Track new changes, commit them again and push 
    2h. Go back to your PULL REQUEST page, you will see all the conflicts are resolved and now you can complete the 
    PULL REQUEST.